             Gmsh is copyright (C) 1997-2008

                   Christophe Geuzaine
                 <cgeuzaine at ulg.ac.be>

                           and

                  Jean-Francois Remacle
          <jean-francois.remacle at uclouvain.be>

Major code contributions to Gmsh have been provided by Nicolas Tardieu
(help with the GSL and Netgen integration), Stephen Guzik (CGNS
integration), Pascale Noyret (MED integration) and Jonathan Lambrechts
(Fields).

Other code contributors include: David Colignon for new colormaps and
lots of testing and bug reports; Patrick Dular for transfinite mesh
bug fixes; Laurent Stainier for the eigenvalue solvers and for help
with the MacOS port and the tensor display code; Pierre Badel for help
with the GSL integration; Marc Ume for the original list code; Matt
Gundry for the Plot3d mesh format; Jozef Vesely for help with the
Tetgen integration; Koen Hillewaert for high order element mappings
and other improvements.

The AVL tree code (Common/avl.*) and the YUV image code
(Graphics/gl2yuv.*) are copyright (C) 1988-1993, 1995 The Regents of
the University of California. Permission to use, copy, modify, and
distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
the name of the University of California not be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
written prior permission. The University of California makes no
representations about the suitability of this software for any
purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

The trackball code (Common/Trackball.*) is copyright (C) 1993, 1994,
Silicon Graphics, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Permission to use, copy,
modify, and distribute this software for any purpose and without fee
is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in
all copies and that both the copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of
Silicon Graphics, Inc. not be used in advertising or publicity
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.

The GIF and PPM routines (Graphics/gl2gif.cpp) are based on code
copyright (C) 1989, 1991, Jef Poskanzer. Permission to use, copy,
modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

The colorbar widget (Fltk/Colorbar_Window.cpp) was inspired by code
from the Vis5d program for visualizing five dimensional gridded data
sets, copyright (C) 1990-1995, Bill Hibbard, Brian Paul, Dave Santek,
and Andre Battaiola.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/ANN
subdirectory) copyright (C) 1997-2005 University of Maryland and Sunil
Arya and David Mount: check the configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/MathEval
subdirectory) based on GNU libmatheval, copyright (C) 1999, 2002, 2003
Free Software Foundation, Inc: check the configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/Netgen
subdirectory) copyright (C) 1994-2004, Joachim Sch"oberl: check the
configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/Tetgen
subdirectory) copyright (C) 2002, 2004, 2005, 2006 Hang Si: check the
configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/Metis
subdirectory) written by George Karypis (karypis at cs.umn.edu),
copyright (C) 1998, Regents of the University of Minnesota: check the
configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the
contrib/NativeFileChooser subdirectory), copyright (C) 2004 by Greg
Ercolano: check the configuration options.

Special thanks to Bill Spitzak, Michael Sweet, Matthias Melcher and
others for the Fast Light Tool Kit on which Gmsh's GUI is based. See
http://www.fltk.org for more info on this excellent object-oriented,
cross-platform toolkit.

Special thanks also to EDF for funding the OpenCascade integration.

Thanks to the following folks who have contributed by providing fresh
ideas on theoretical or programming topics, who have sent patches,
requests for changes or improvements, or who gave us access to exotic
machines for testing Gmsh: Juan Abanto, Olivier Adam, Guillaume
Alleon, Eric Bechet, Laurent Champaney, Pascal Dupuis, Philippe
Geuzaine, Johan Gyselinck, Francois Henrotte, Benoit Meys, Nicolas
Moes, Osamu Nakamura, Chad Schmutzer, Jean-Luc Fl'ejou, Xavier
Dardenne, Christophe Prud'homme, Sebastien.Clerc, Jose Miguel Pasini,
Philippe Lussou, Jacques Kools, Bayram Yenikaya, Peter Hornby, Krishna
Mohan Gundu, Christopher Stott, Timmy Schumacher, Carl Osterwisch,
Bruno Frackowiak, Philip Kelleners, Romuald Conty, Ruth Sabariego,
Renaud Sizaire, Michel Benhamou, Emilie Marchandise, Tom De Vuyst.
